So in order to install NPM you must have a node.js installed in your machine.
Actually NPM comes with node.js if you install node.js in your machine. You'll automatically have
NPM. So go to nodejs.org if you don't already have node.js and then download it and
install it. After we've done installing
node.js should now open your terminal or command line prompt in Windows.
And if you type "node -v" a version should come up.
And also if you should, if you type "npm -v" the same thing.
So that's how you make sure you've successfully installed node and NPM.
So now we can start installing
NPM in our theme. I'm having htdocs folder opened here.  I'm gonna browse to
my theme folder, this one. And then in the command line or the terminal I'm gonna type "cd".
And on mac you can drag the folder to get the path.
And I think on Windows you can just copy the address bar.
And now we should be inside the folder in the command prompt as you can see, firsttheme. So to initialize
NPM inside this folder,
we can type "npm init".
And you have to type some information. So package name,
you can call "firsttheme". And version, we can leave it 1.0.0 the default. And description
no not important right now.
You can leave these.
You can actually edit these later so I'm gonna just leave the default for now.
Now if you go to the Visual Studio Code or your text editor we will have the package.json created.
And it will have the information that we've just filled so you can edit this you actually.
So now we have NPM setup and our folder. Let's now.
install NPM packages.
So as I mentioned we'll need Gulp and this is the official repository for Gulp.
And here are the instructions to install it.
So if we, if we type "npm install gulp", it will install version 3.9 and we actually need version, 4 the latest
version.
So we're gonna type this line here. "npm install gulp@next".Let's open the documentation for version 4.
And we'll go to the Get Started section.
So first we have to install the Gulp CLI.
And this is a command line tool that we will install globally on our machine.
It's not just on in our folder.
So I'm gonna copy this line and paste it here. And it has "--global" will make sure it's installed
on the machine and not just on this folder.
So why am I get this error here?
It's a permission error.
And if you get that, just type "sudo" before the command if you're on Mac. And if you're on Windows you can run the command
line as an administrator. So we've successfully install the Gulp CLI globally now.
We can make sure that it's installed by typing "gulp -v". So we've the CLI version 2.0.1. Now
let's install Gulp itself in our project folder.
So I'm gonna copy this command. Notice here
the "--save
-dev" flag.
And I'll tell you what will this do in a moment.
So we copied it in the command line.
And after it's done we can go to the package.json again and now we will have a new key here "devDependencies"
and " gulp". And that's what the --save-dev
flag did. If we actually just type "npm install gulp" we'll not save the gulp package in the package.json.
That's important.
So at this point we should in the command line if we type "gulp -v" inside our folder we should
have two things now.
The CLI version which is the global version of Gulp CLI and the local version of the Gulp package
in our folder.
So let's go back now to the Gulp documentation.
And after installing it, it says we should create a file called gulpfile.js. So let's do that. I'm gonna create it
from the command line using the touch command.
So now we have this.
gulpfile in our theme.
And then we can create our tasks.
So let's copy that.
And paste.
So this code will include the Gulp library from the node_modules. When we use the require() function and
include the library,
it will go to the node_modules and include that library. Now we're defining a new task which is "default". And then
the second argument is a function. So inside this function we should write our task logic.
So let's now just type "console.log
('hey')". And let's see what we can do. In the, in the terminal we can type "gulp" now and this would run the
default task.
So as you can see we have "hey" here.
We can create a new task, another task
and let's call it this time
"hello".
And pass the function.
And then "console.log
('hello')".
Now if you can, if we type "gulp hello"
we'll get "hello".
And we have a some sort of an error here.
It says the following task did not complete.
And the reason is that we should tell Gulp that our task has completed. So we've seen in the code that we've copied
we have a, we call a function called done() here which is pasted in the task.
This is how we tell Gulp that we've done with the task.
So if we type "done()" in the arguments of the function then call it.
And then "gulp hello" we won't get that error.
So one thing you should have noticed here if we define a task called default this task will run if we type
"gulp" here without any task name, right?
One more thing I would like to do here.
You probably know that JavaScript has new versions that they release every year.
So now we've the ES
2015 and 16 and 17.
So we need to be able to use this new syntax in the gulpfile.
So instead of the require statements here, we can use the ES6 import statements, like so
"import gulp from 'gulp'".
And also we can use arrow functions and all the new JavaScript features. But to do that we have to do
something first. We can't just do that directly.
So let's go back now to the Gulp repository and there's a section here about using latest JavaScript
version in the gulpfile.
So the first thing is that we should rename gulpfile to gulpfile.babel.js.
So let's do that now.
And then we should install these packages. So.
And this one is install a package called babel. And babel is responsible for transpiling the new JavaScript
versions into older JavaScript versions in order to run for older browsers.
So it has some templates or presets that we can transpile.
So here we're using ES15 and that is kind of old so we can use.
We can update that to a package called babel-
preset-env. And that will make sure we are transpiling the latest versions. So let's install that.
And after that
we should create a new file .babelrc
.babelrc.
And add the preset
inside of it.
So in our case we installed the env. Sorry, the env preset.
And now we can write ES6 inside the gulpfile.
So I'm gonna comment this and then rewrite a task within ES6 syntax.
So "import gulp from 'gulp'".
And then to create a task
all you have to do is just to export the function.
You don't have to call "gulp.task". To export a function and the function name is the task name.
And we can use arrow functions.
And if you don't know what I'm talking about I really recommend you can go and read about the the new
JavaScript versions.
So let's now try and run "gulp
hello". And we get the same result.
From "gulp" now we'll get an error because  we have not defined a default function. And to do that in the ES6 syntax
you just have to export a default function.
So "export default
hello" and then run "gulp". And it will run the hello() function.